---
title: "qr codes sample"
layout: post
---

short for quick response code, barcode on steroids

barcode holds information horizontally, qr does so horizontally and vertically, hold hundred times more information

QR codes: something that looks very complex and sound like it has a a more complex abbreviation (because it has a Q in it), is anything but complicated. The abbrev is quick response code, which at face value means something (code) that responds quickly to something else.

You may already have seen qr codes in action in a lot of places, not only exclusive to tech but also other areas, menus in a hotel, business cards,	billboards, resumes and cvs etc.

And much more – a company in the UK called QR Memories even creates QR codes for use on gravestones, allowing people to scan the code to read more about that deceased person’s life (if they have an obituary or news story relating to them online).


In 1994, a Denso Wave employee named Masahiro Hara conjured up the idea of QR codes while playing the game Go. If you've never played Go before, it consists of a 19×19 grid with black and white stones placed throughout.


types of barcodes

1 dimensional barcode
    • UPC code
    • EAN code
    • Code 39
    • Code 128
    • ITF interleaved 2 of 5
    • Code 93
    • Codabar
    • GS1 databar
    • MSI plessey

2 dimensional barcode
    • QR code
    • Datamatrix code
    • PDF 417
    • Aztec

How do they work HOW do they store data

the process of storing data is essentially the same: the barcode represents a sequence of binary codes, which can be read and decoded by a barcode scanner. This allows the information to be quickly and accurately transferred from the barcode to a computer or other device, making barcodes an efficient and effective tool for data storage and retrieval.


Parts of qr code

quiet zone


Patterns in qr codes
every qr code has a “pattern” it has 3 bigger squares in the corners, these are termed finder patterns, this in conjunction with the alignment pattern orients the code so that qr codes can be scanned at any angle and the qr reader still knows which way is up

if you look closer , from one finder pattern to another you find these alternating black and white dots these are called the timing pattern and these tell the reader the size of the qr code

version 1
VERSION 40

Information about the format of the qr code is stores near the finder patterns. Its stored more than once to even if the qr code is not fully visible, the reader can read it.

This stores three crucial pieces of information
-mask
-error correction level
-error correection format








dealing with imperfections

    • Error correction; reed-solomon correction algorithm to add redundancy to the encoded data, this means even if part of code are damaged or obscured, scanner can still use the redundant date to reconstruct the missing information
    • position detection; QR codes have built in PD patters, which allow the scanner to determine the orientation of the code and compensate for distortion or rotations
    • quiet zone; QR have quiet zones surrounding the code which provides a margin of error and helps scanner distinguish the code from any surrounding imagery or text
    • data masking; qr codes use data masking to randomize the placement of data bits within the code, which makes it harder for errors or damage to disrupt the overall pattern of the code
    • Version Control: QR codes come in different versions, which vary in size and complexity. More complex QR codes can store more data, but they are also more susceptible to errors and damage. QR code readers can detect the version of the code and adjust their error correction accordingly.


MALICIOUS QR CODES (QR CODE SECURITY

qr codes themselves cant be hacked. The security riska that are associated with qr codes derive from the destination of qr codes rather than the codes themselves
